# Transcription

Julia code to simulate, compute closed-form solutions, and fit stochastic GR models of gene transcription. Models is a continuous Markov model with an arbitrary number of G (gene) states and R (pre-RNA) steps. The model makes reversible transitions between G states.  One of the states is an active state where transcription can be initiated whereupon the first R step is occupied. Transitions can occur between R steps if the next R step is unoccupied. An mRNA molecule can be ejected from the finally R step where it then decays. The model also considers multiple alleles of the gene and coupling between alleles. Each R step is considered visible when occupied; the first R step represents the time the reporter is first observable. In the original model in Rodriguez et al. Cell (2018), the reporter was in the exon and thus was always carried out to the last step and ejected. The repository includes code that uses the Gillespie algorithm to exactly simulate the stochastic model and also functions that can compute distributions of the ON and OFF times of the reporters and the steady state mRNA distribution. These model predicted distributions can be compared to the imaging data. The models are fit using a Bayesian Metropolis-Hastings algorithm to compute posterior distributions of all the parameters. Genenerally, models consisting of n G states and p R steps are fit separately. The model inference code is parallelized. TThere is code to prepare the data and analyze the MCMC results.

The model has also been augmented to account for stochastic splicing where the reporter is located on an intron that can be spliced out at any R step. There is also code to fit single cell RNA seq data.
